I'm here at the wild life Sydney zoo to
tell you about some of my favorite
Australian deadly encounters one of the
best would surely have to be with the
saltwater crocodile Australia is
definitely the best place in the whole
world to film them there are hundreds of
thousands of these incredible reptiles
here the largest reptile on the planet
there have been some have been measured
that over 6 meters in length and have
weighed well over a ton and this is the
animal that has the most powerful most
potent bite force of any creature on the
planet I went to the northern
territories up in near Darwin to film
these animals in their natural habitat
the idea was to try and get recloser to
female crocodiles while they're on their
nests so you're going to try and get to
the nests uncover them find out how many
eggs are inside find out how they were
doing and try and get some sense of how
the population was doing unfortunately
the female crocodiles their nest right
in it's a very very tight dense Sawgrass
along the edges of the river it's almost
impossible to get there on foot you
can't get there by boat you certainly
can't drive there in fact the only way
to get into these nests is to drop in
underneath a helicopter and I'm not even
joking I'm talking about being dropped
online underneath the helicopter right
on top of a nest with a three meter plus
saltwater crocodile who is fiercely
guarding her own nest a lot of people
think of crocodiles as being these
fierce meat-eating monsters but the
truth is that the females are incredibly
protecting their young there are very
few animals that have quite so keen to
look after their youngsters from the
eggs right through to the hatchlings so
getting into one of these nests was
going to be a serious challenge we
really have to watch each other's backs
there were three of us getting in to try
to approach the first nest myself Matt
writes who is a local guide who actually
goes in and checks out assessing the
health of these nests for a living and
my cameraman Graham so each of us was
dangled in on a line underneath the
helicopter which is flying at about 30
or 40 miles an hour
dangling over the top of rivers that we
knew a full of crocodiles and then we
saw below us this mound looks a bit like
a compost heap and sat on top of it was
a female crocodile we dropped in maybe
about 6 or 7 meters the side of this
nest and I have to say that all of our
hearts were absolutely thumping we
couldn't see her we couldn't see the
nest we knew she was there and at any
second she could have charged towards us
as we move towards the nest it was
fiercely hot and humid we were being
eaten alive by biting insects but
obviously the thing we were most
concerned about was the three metre long
reptile that was just meters in front of
us we could hear her moving but we
couldn't see her as we approached she
charged towards us with the most
monumental sound as a raging splash in
the water and then a crushing sound as
she stampeded through the Russians my
cameraman Graham who didn't have the
benefit of looking with his eyes he was
looking through the tiny little screen
on the camera just tumbled back flat on
his back convinced he was about to be
stampeded and eventually though we got
close enough that we could see her and
she took flight we left the nest behind
so he got in we uncovered it and we
found inside about 40 of these perfect
eggs are about the size of it goose egg
but you can just about see if you hold
them up to the light to the tiny shape
of the miniature crocodile inside just
wriggling around and these wonderful
eggs were the hope for the future at a
saltwater crocodile in Australia it was
a wonderful moment and although we were
all scared witnessed by it I'd have to
say one of the most exciting and
dramatic we've ever filmed with deadly